# GuestBook

# Introduction
### GuestBook is an App that the Users can:

* create an account
* login to the App
* view messages
* create new messages
* update the existing messages
* delete any message
* also users can reply to messages

# Prerequisites

#### Before you continue, ensure you have met the following requirements:

* You have installed the latest version of Node.js.

# How To Install
1) clone the project from 'https://github.com/aarmiahany/GuestBook'
2) cd to GuestBook/src directory
3) npm install 

## Explanation of my code and files:
main.js --> Where the server is created by http server module then i gathered all data from req object in order to pass it to the selected Handler
selected Handler is the choosen key from routes obj .. selected according to the req.url
stringDecoder is a class for parsing data from req payload
finally before sending the response for client i enabled CROS

config.js --> Where all app configs or keys live in.

db.js --> establish the connection to MongoDB Atlas.

Handlers Folder --> Which is responsible For handling the routes that the client hits ... geting data and make query and then callback the returned data.

helpers/auth.js --> Acts as a Guard to the App which extract token from headers and checks is the token valid or not.

routes.js --> collecting all app routes with handler for each path.

token.js --> responsible for generating new token which is generated by crypto build-in module.

schema --> Drawing Data Model for Each Collection and creating model for each collection.

node_module --> The Exam says that not to use any third part or external libraries, So why there is a node_module folder ? Don't worry it's only for mongoose.js.


## My Notes And Comments:

-The Exam says that not to use any third part or external libraries and i did, However there is only one third part library i used it's Mongoose.js and it's for Connecting to mongodb atlas and defining collections models and making queries.
-i preferred using mongodb as data storage choice than saving data in files using File System Module
-i also preferred using mongoose than native mongodb as it more organized and there is a data validation before saving data.
- Make sure when running the app it logged in console connected successfully but, if connection to MongoDB Failed please tell me this is for security reasons as you should change the IP address.


